F-LBQ: Fine-grained Low Bit Quantization for
Efficient and Accurate Object Detection
—Suplementary Materials
February 6, 2025
1 Implementation Details
We randomly select 64 samples from training set to form the calibration set. We
apply the proposed F-LBQ method on those finetuned ViT backbones to search
for optimal bit-allocation for transformer layers that minimizes alteration on
backbone feature caused by the quantization. For layers in detection and seg-
mentation heads in Mask-RCNN framework, we apply standard uniform quan-
tization and vanilla quantization scaling factors. We apply channel-group-wise
allocation for F-LBQ experiments. For Lagrangian Multiplier Solver (F-LBQ-
LG), we search the optimalλ that results in a bit-allocationbl that is as close to
the feasible region given by the bit-rate constraint as possible, with a tolerance
ratio at
Bit(q(Φ(1:L)))−B
≤ ϵ. In the experiments we set ϵ = 0.02. Since
we expect the slopes of the error curves for all layers w.r.t. different bit-widths
are always positive, we operate the binary search on the power set 2 R, and set
the searching range from [2 −100, 0], which makes the asymptotic complexity of
the binary search roughly Θ(log 100
2ϵ L)≈ Θ(96L). We observe the LG solver
runs within one second on CPU for most of the time. To prevent large vari-
ance in layerwise bit-width from deteriorating the performance, we additionally
constraint the minimum bit-width in the solution to 1 ∼ 2-bit lower than the
target bit rate which is a hyperparameter.
2 More Discussions about Bit Allocation
The remarkable performance of our low-bit quanization method F-PTQ is thanks
to the fine-grained multi-bit quantization as shown in Fig. 1. In the figure, we
observe the two solvers behave differently mostly on earlier layers in the ViT
detector, and both solvers allocate lowest bit rates to intermediate layers in the
ViT backbone, implying that those layers contribute the least to the detection
accuracy.
1
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
Layer Index
4
5
6
7
8
9
10Bit Width
Uniform
F-PTQ-DP
F-PTQ-LG
Figure 1: F-LBQ-DP v.s. F-LBQ-LG bit-allocation results on Mask-RCNN-
Swin-T.
2